Add next steps to registration guide (#1818)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/build-blockchain/register-sidechain.adoc

}
----
====

== Relayer nodes and app-registry

xref:{url_run_index_relayer}[Relayer nodes] are required to send cross-chain messages from sidechain to mainchain and vice-versa.

To facilitate cross-chain communication, at least one relayer node is required on the mainchain and the sidechain.

=== Setup relayer nodes on mainchain and sidechain

Please check the guide xref:{url_run_relayer}[] for a step-by-step explanation how to turn a node into a relayer.

=== Register off-chain data in the app-registry

> As a last step, it is recommended to register the sidechain related off-chain metadata to the {url_github_appregistry}[app registry^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a last step, it is necessary to register the sidechain related off-chain metadata to the {url_github_appregistry}[app registry^].
```

The data can be provided as a pull request to the repository, which is adding a new folder under for the respective network with the following structure:

----
.
├── app-registry/betanet/<APP>/
│   └── app.json
│   ├── nativetokens.json
│   └── images/
│   │   ├── application
│   │   │   ├── app.png
│   │   │   └── app.svg
│   │   └── tokens
│   │   │   ├── token.png
│   │   │   └── token.svg
tsconfig.json
----

where `<APP>` is the name of the sidechain app.

`app.json`::

> Off-chain metadata of a sidechain, to be used by user frontends like Lisk Wallet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Off-chain metadata of a sidechain, to be used by user frontends such as the Lisk Wallet.
```

> Off-chain metadata of a sidechain, to be used by user frontends such as the Lisk Wallet.

Reviewer: user frontends? maybe `to be used by client applications such as Lisk Desktop, Mobile and other explorers`?

            "tokenName": "Lisk",
            "description": "Default token for the entire Lisk ecosystem",
            "denomUnits": [
                {
                    "denom": "beddows",
                    "decimals": 0,
                    "aliases": [
                        "Beddows"
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "denom": "lsk",
                    "decimals": 8,
                    "aliases": [
                        "Lisk"
                    ]
                }
            ],
            "baseDenom": "beddows",
            "displayDenom": "lsk",
            "symbol": "LSK",
            "logo": {
                "png": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiskHQ/app-registry/main/betanet/Lisk/images/tokens/lisk.png",
                "svg": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/LiskHQ/app-registry/main/betanet/Lisk/images/tokens/lisk.svg"
            }
        }
    ]
}
----
====

{url_github_appregistry_schema_tokens}[Schema for nativetokens.json^]

`images/application/`::
Icons to be used for the sidechain application.

`images/tokens/`::
Icons to be used for the native tokens of the sidechain.

=== Move LSK to sidechain

> NOTE: This step is not necessary, if the default token for CCM fees (LSK) is changed to a native sidechain token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: This step is not necessary, if the default token for the CCM fees (LSK) is changed to a native sidechain token.
```

> To be able to pay the CCM transaction fees, it is necessary to move a sufficient amount of LSK tokens from mainchain to sidechain via a cross-chain transfer transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To be able to pay the CCM transaction fees, it is necessary to move a sufficient amount of LSK tokens from the mainchain to the sidechain via a cross-chain transfer transaction.
```

Create the following transaction with your mainchain node:

.Example: Creating a cross-chain transfer transaction
[source,bash]
----
$ lisk-core transaction:create token transferCrossChain 10000000
? Please enter passphrase:  [hidden]
? Please enter: tokenID:  0100000000000000
? Please enter: amount:  1000000000
? Please enter: receivingChainID:  01000001
? Please enter: recipientAddress:  lsk24cd35u4jdq8szo3pnsqe5dsxwrnazyqqqg5eu
? Please enter: data:  cross-chain transfer
? Please enter: messageFee:  1
? Please enter: messageFeeTokenID:  0100000000000000
----

* `tokenID`: The token ID of the LSK token.

> * `receivingChainID`: Enter the chain ID of the respective sidechain you want to send LSK to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `receivingChainID`: Enter the chain ID of the respective sidechain where you intend to transfer your LSK tokens.
```

* `recipientAddress`: Enter the recipient address for the account on the sidechain.
* `messageFee`: Enter the fee for the CCM.
* `messageFeeTokenID`: Enter the token ID of the token that should be used to pay the fee.
Enter here the tokenID of the LSK token.

NOTE: Sending CCMs from mainchain to sidechain does not <<activate-the-sidechain>>, yet.
Only a CCM from sidechain to mainchain will enable the xref:{url_sidechain_reg_recovery_liveness}[liveness condition].

== Activate the sidechain

> After registering the sidechain and setting up the required relayer nodes, the sidechain is ready to be xref:{url_sidechain_reg_recovery_active}[activated] .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After registering the sidechain and setting up the required relayer nodes, the sidechain is ready to be xref:{url_sidechain_reg_recovery_active}[activated].
```

To activate the sidechain, send a xref:{url_sidechain_reg_recovery_1stccu}[first CCU] from sidechain to mainchain.

[CAUTION]
====
* The first cross-chain update (CCU) to be submitted on the mainchain must contain a certificate *less than 15 days old*.
* Once the sidechain is *active*, it needs to fulfil the xref:{url_sidechain_reg_recovery_liveness}[liveness condition], otherwise it will be *terminated*.
====

> Once the first CCU was sent successfully from sidechain to mainchain, the sidechain is now activated and interoperable with the mainchain and other sidechains the Lisk ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the first CCU was sent successfully from sidechain to mainchain, the sidechain is now activated and interoperable with the mainchain and other sidechains within the Lisk ecosystem.
```
